So with that,
let's do one that transforms Markdown.
Let's see.
Where's my Vite starter?
So, let's do real quick, let's just
make sure, whatever I did last in here.
Just a second, let's make a new branch and
we'll call it,
what we'll do off of main,
we'll call it Markdown plugin.
Cool, and we do need to install
something that processes Markdown.
My favorite is re-mark and re-hype,
and then there's this
something called Unified,
which does both of them, but there's a lot
of setup and boilerplate in that one.
It's a really powerful and
really cool and it has a lot of,
that's what's effectively
powering this website.
I'm gonna use the simpler one because
watching me configure a really
powerful Markdown parser is
not what we signed up for.
But we'll kinda just show what
the pattern can look like here.
So, do npm install.
There's one called markdown-it, it's simple.
It's fine.
And we'll go and we'll pull that in.
And you can break this
out into its own file.
If you're gonna publish it
on npm as a library per se,
cause we know how to do that now.
The convention is vite-plugin-,
something that's not taken.
Or you can do like namespaced at
your username/vite plugin, whatever.
But since it's just a function like
the ones that we have in our code base,
in my day job.
So I think it'll you like,
it's an open source server.
I just want to spin it up when I
spin up my development server.
So I have a plug in that basically,
I just type in npm Dev and
it spins up both the server that
I'm like building the UI for
that I need to talk to as well as the
development beat server at the same time.
That's a plug-in that we wrote, right?
Unique to my use case, now I don't have to
open up two tabs and type npm start twice.
Little things like that
become super powerful.
And so with this, I'm just gonna
write it in this file because again,
it is just a function
at the end of the day.
I'll say import Markdown from markdown-it.
And that actually you have to
instantiate a new class for
reasons I don't fully understand.
.So that's gonna be our Markdown parser.
Cool, we're also gonna need to read
that file from the file system, maybe.
Actually, I don't
think we do.
Because I'm gonna replace the load
function, because out of the box,
Vite can only actually, it will try to
treat everything as JavaScript unless you
step in during a load function.
So we'll just make ourselves a little
bit of a helper function here.
We'll say const renderMarkdown.
Cool and that's gonna make it
async function give me a file.
We are gonna need to like read
that file from the file system.
And so I'm gonna pull in
the promise version of that.
So I'll import read file from
fs promises, cool.
And then what we'll do is we
will say content equals read file.
If it's import content from file name.
That's what this argument is gonna be,
right?
It's gonna be the path, we've seen that
source slash whatever in this case.
So we will read file,
whatever the file is.
So we'll say file, and
then I'm just gonna say utf-8, so
I don't end up with a buffer in
Node, right?
So read the file and
then, we can really just
md.render, that content, right?
That's just a little function
that give it a file,
reads the file from the file system,
turns the Markdown into HTML, right?
There with I think, remark,
you can actually get an AST
that you can manipulate and
do all sorts of stuff with as well.
I'm choosing not to do that I'm just gonna
get a string that we can then use that in
HTML somewhere if we wanted
to very dangerously.
Yes, if you're doing this for
really real use something like remark,
I'm using this plugin in
the actual app that is MDX,
but it's for Svelte, same thing, right?
But this is mostly to demonstrate
what we would do to make it
in the plugin piece, cool.
So that's a render Markdown.
That's just a helper file.
And then our plugin is
pretty straightforward.
Let's call it function markdownToHtml.
Now you'll notice that I used a regular
old function declaration, and
that is intentional.
The reason for
that is that if you use an arrow function,
it's bound to whatever this is in
the scope that you wrote it, but
these actually have access to
this dot inside of rollup.
So you wanna make sure that you're
not binding the wrong this, so
just use a function declaration.
You do need to give it a name,
that's mostly for debugging purposes,
we'll just call it markdown-to-html and
then we'll say resolveId, and
this is basically to say,
is this one that we personally deal with.
I just think it's got to return something.
So if the id ends with .md,
Then return it.
I gotta return an object.
I'm so used to writing arrow functions.
I was like why am I getting squigglies?
Nobody wants squigglies.
Resolve the id, otherwise return null,
or you can return undefined.
It's basically saying we
don't resolve this one.
Format it a little bit better.
And then finally,
now we know that that returns a promise
because it reads in the file system.
So make this async function,
we say load, that id.
And we'll say, again,
I'm gonna guard it with ends with.
If you're importing a file that ends with
a Markdown, then I want to deal with it.
And so we'll say const rendered.
Render Markdown for that id.
The same way when we saw that JSON named
exports, it was taking the JSON file and
converting it into an ES module.
It's effectively all we're
really doing here, right?
Is like, cool, return me something
that the rest of Vite understands, and
Vite understands ES modules, right?
Could you move what I'm about to write
into another file and interpolate it in?
Absolutely, should you probably.
This is short enough that
I can write it in line.
And so, I'll just say export default, and
then interpolate it in
to something that we can
get stringified,
that'll wrap it in quotes and
everything along those lines as well.
And so now, what'll happen is
when we go to read a file,
it's like, you want a Markdown file?
Okay, I'm gonna try to read,
I'm gonna intercept the one,
I'm gonna read it from the file system.
I'm gonna turn it into Markdown, and
I'm gonna give you back a string
of HTML in this case, right?
Obviously, you could extend
this in all sorts of ways.
If you want to process this file
in any way, shape, or form.
There was a question in the chat earlier,
what if I want to put a global
import on top of every single
file that has a file extension.
So let's say, I want to import React and
maybe I wanna import my component library
at the beginning of every file that ends
with a certain file extension, right?
You could literally, at this point
we're replacing the file, but
we could theoretically just append to
the current contents of the file as well.
And or prepend and say like,
put this thing at the very beginning or
in development put a console log or
something like that about
what the file name is, right?
Whatever you wanna do or
like do something with the source map or
replace a special string
with something else.
So you can do whatever you want to every
file, again, most of the common ones have
plugins, there's a ton of them and
they're really super powerful.
You should look at some of them because
I'll give you some inspiration, but
a lot of times if you have to go on the
path of writing your own it is likely for
a reason.
Sweet, assuming that my
talking while I typed
it didn't create any issues,
we should be able to
pop this in as another plugin and
that should be great.
Yeah, it's a very simple one,
only gonna make HTML.
It's not gonna give me
a lot of manipulation but
there are other tools that can
totally do that and super useful.
Again, there's some file format
that you already have a parser for.
There's just no Vite plugin.
You can use this technique and
now have full ability to import it and
use it in your app.
You just got to turn out a some kind
of ES module in the end, Dustin.
>> Could you exclude some files
from a specific dependency?
>> I mean, we are checking for
which ones we want to include.
So, it's just JavaScript.
Your logic can go either way, right?
You can say,
if not a JavaScript file, do this.
Now, that's obviously a wider range
than what you are actually looking for.
But one of the ways that I have not used
this yet, that we are at least talking
about is like I said,
we have two different builds of our app.
Right now, there are conditionals and
they're based on environment variables.
What I kinda wanna do is look at,
hey, when you import a file,
if it's just the file and there's no
maybe .oss or .cloud, pull in that file.
But depending on the environment, go
actually swap it out for this other file.
There's a bunch of use cases
that'll be very specific.
I'm only opt to end .md, but
you could say it's just up to you,
whatever logic you want, right?
And you will have the name of the file and
with I think, I forget which one.
There's another one, I think is maybe
just regular resolve, where you get not
only the file you are importing but
the file that tried to import it, right?
And so you can do interesting
stuff along those lines as well